Welcome back to the advanced course on
Tableau and today we're talking about
dynamic sets and we already discussed
that static sets have the disadvantage
that they are hard-coded and they cannot
adjust as our data changes and they
cannot adjust as the conditions of our
analysis change. But dynamic sets don't
have the disadvantage, so let's go ahead
and create this same set but for the top
10 startups but we'll make it a dynamic
one. So we're going to go back to the
growth tab that we have here and as you
recall when we created the statics set,
we selected the categories that we want
or the names of the companies and we
created click this button create set
over here.
Well if you want to create a dynamic set
you can't create it from the visual itself.
You have to go through the field name so
let's go ahead and do that. First, we need
to identify the dimension we're going to
create the set form and let's create
this set for ID. We could create it for name
just like we did with the previous set
but ID's a bit safer because it is
definitely a unique field. So right-click
ID and select create, select set, now here
what we're doing is we're selecting the
dimension we're creating this set for.
The condition of this categories of this
dimension being in and out of the set
can be different and that's what we're
going to specify now. They can actually
involve measures that's exactly what
we'll need. So let's give this second
name, we'll call it
top 10 startups by growth dynamic set
and here you can do first thing you can
do right away you can maybe select the
ones that you want in this set so that
would be similar to what we did before
but the only difference is that we could
think we can then later adjust very
easily which startups would go in, which
startups don't go in, but we won't be
doing that. Here in the general tab, we'll
select use all and that we'll make sure
that everything we have in our data
all the categories are participating in
the creation of the set. If you leave it
on this and then you for some reason you
get a few more categories so if you even
select all here but then you get a few
more categories they won't fall into
your into the creation of your set and
that might cause a problem. So the best
thing we can do here is click use all.
Now we can specify the condition that
tells us whether or not and a company
falls into this set. We could specify
condition here but for the first set
that we'll create, we'll use this top tab
over here which is a very convenient. So
here you can select by field top 10 and
select the 2015 growth percentage.
Aggregation once again doesn't matter,
and click OK and right away that has
created a new set for us. There it is top 10
startups by growth dynamic set. Now let's
go and see how we can use this new set.
Let's go back to a tree map and let's
take out our old set and put in our new
set. As you can see, the result is exactly
the same but we have a major advantage
now. Now we can control our visual by
controlling the set. If you right-click
on the set and click edit set and then
go to top instead of 10 we can simply
specify five and the visual adjust can
specify three and the visual will adjust
again and so now we might want to change
the name of the set from top 10 to just
top startups because we can very
conveniently change the number of
startups and top startups by growth that
we're looking at. So let's click OK and
that was the first example of how to
create a dynamic set using the top tab
now let's go ahead and create another
one using the other tabs
calculation. I'm going to create a new sheet and
I will call it scatterplot and here as you
recall the venture capital fund wants to
look at two characteristics of the
startups that it's considering for
investment. It wants to look at revenue
and expenses and that's on top of the
growth that we've already started
looking at. So let's go ahead and drag
revenue and expenses into our chart. We'll
put revenue on the horizontal axis and
expenses on the vertical axis and now we
don't want aggregation we want just the
scatterplot, so to do that we're going to
go to analysis and we'll uncheck
aggregate measures and there we go so
that is our scatterplot. For now let's
focus on revenue, as you can see revenue
varies from just over million
to just over 16 million for the year.
Let's say the venture capital fund has a
cut off and they only want to look at
other companies that have revenue or
about 9 million let's say they want to
look at companies with that had revenue
over 9 million so the companies on the right over
here.
How can we create a visualization that
represents that? well right away we just
want to create a set so once again we
want to create a set for ID so that's
the dimension that will be creating a
set for because it's at the level of the
company. We want to create set we want to
use all once again and then want to add
a condition so this time we don't we
can't say the top number of companies
because we don't know how many will fall
into that we actually have a curve point which
is nine million. So let's say condition
where by field 2015 revenue some doesn't
matter which aggregation we use once
again because we're at the most granular
level is greater than and then just here
will type in our 9 million and will
click ok. So we've created our set. We
didn't get a name so let's quickly give
it a name so this is going to be high
revenue.
Click apply and there's our set. So now
we can drag it onto color and right away
we can see the companies that have high
revenue. So let's make this look a bit
better instead of shapes we're going to
use circles and maybe give this to these
circles a bit of some some transparency
and maybe increase the size a little bit.
There we go so right away on the right
here we see the companies that the
venture capital fund might be interested
in and if they want to change the
condition we can very quickly do it we
just right click and click edit set and
here let's say they now want to consider
only companies that had over 10 million
dollars in revenue
just click apply as you can see the set
very quickly change. So that's how you
create dynamic sets those are two ways
we looked at using the top tab and using
a calculation and in the next tutorial,
we will learn how to combine sets. I look
forward to see you next time.